This sample demonstrates how to send proactive messages to users by
capturing a conversation reference, then using it later to initialize 
outbound messages. 

# Table of Contents
- [Concepts introduced in this sample](#concepts-introduced-in-this-sample)
  * [Proactive Messages](#proactive-messages)
- [To try this sample](#to-try-this-sample)
  * [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    + [Clone the repo](#clone-the-repo)
  * [Run the Sample](#run-the-sample)
    + [Visual Studio Code](#visual-studio-code)
  * [Testing the bot using Bot Framework Emulator](#testing-the-bot-using-bot-framework-emulator)
  * [Deploy to Azure](#deploy-to-azure)
    + [Using CLI Tools](#using-cli-tools)
- [Further reading](#further-reading)

# Concepts introduced in this sample
## Proactive Messages
Typically, each message that a bot sends to the user directly relates to the user's prior input. In some cases, a bot may need to send the user a message that is not directly related to the current topic of conversation. These types of messages are called proactive messages.

Proactive messages can be useful in a variety of scenarios. If a bot sets a timer or reminder, it will need to notify the user when the time arrives. Or, if a bot receives a notification from an external system, it may need to communicate that information to the user immediately.

In order to send a proactive message using Botbuilder, the bot must first capture a conversation reference from an incoming message using `TurnContext.getConversationReference()`. This reference can be stored for later use.

To send proactive messages, acquire a conversation reference, then use `adapter.continueConversation()` to create a `TurnContext` object that will allow the bot to deliver the new outgoing message.
# To try this sample
## Prerequisites
### Clone the repo
To clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/microsoft/botbuilder-samples.git
```

## Run the Sample
### Visual Studio Code
- In a terminal, navigate to the following directory:
  ```bash
  cd samples\javascript_nodejs\16.proactive-messages
  ```

  **Optional:** Update the `.env` file under `samples\javascript_nodejs\16.proactive-messages` with your **botFileSecret**.
  For Azure Bot Service bots, you can find the botFileSecret under application settings.

- Install modules and start the bot:
    ```bash
    npm i && npm start
    ```
    Alternatively you can also use nodemon via:
    ```bash
    npm i && npm run watch
    ```

## Testing the bot using Bot Framework Emulator
[Microsoft Bot Framework Emulator](https://github.com/microsoft/botframework-emulator) is a desktop application that allows bot developers to test and debug their bots on localhost or running remotely through a tunnel.

Install the Bot Framework emulator from [here](https://github.com/Microsoft/BotFramework-Emulator/releases).

Build run your bot locally and open two instances of the emulator.

1. In the first emulator, type `run` to simulate a job being added to the queue.
1. Copy the job number from the emulator log.
1. In the second emulator, type `done <jobNumber>`, where "<jobNumber>" is the job number, without the angle brackets, that you copied in the previous step. This will cause the bot to complete the job.
1. Note that the bot sends a message proactively to the user in the first emulator when the job is completed.

## Deploy to Azure
### Using CLI Tools
You can use the [MSBot](https://github.com/microsoft/botbuilder-tools) Bot Builder CLI tool to clone and configure any services this sample depends on. In order to install this and other tools, you can read [Installing CLI Tools](../../../Installing_CLI_tools.md).

To clone this bot, run:

```bash
msbot clone services -f deploymentScripts/msbotClone -n <BOT-NAME> -l <Azure-location> --subscriptionId <Azure-subscription-id>
```
- Write down the secret generated by `MSBot`. 
- The secret key is used later for the emulator and configuration:
  ```bash
  The secret used to decrypt <NAME>.bot is:
    XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX=
    NOTE: This secret is not recoverable and you should store this secret in a secure place according to best security practices.
    Your project may be configured to rely on this secret and you should update it as appropriate.
  ```
- Inspect Bot configuration file.
- The `msbot clone` command above generates a bot configuration file.
- The name of the bot configuration file is `<NAME>.bot`, where `<NAME>` is the name of your bot used in the `msbot clone` step.
- The configuration file can be loaded by the [Microsoft Bot Framework Emulator](https://aka.ms/botframeworkemulator).
# Further reading
- [Send proactive messages](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/bot-service/bot-builder-howto-proactive-message?view=azure-bot-service-4.0&tabs=js)
- [continueConversation Method](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/javascript/api/botbuilder/botframeworkadapter#continueconversation)
- [getConversationReference Method](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/javascript/api/botbuilder-core/turncontext#getconversationreference)