This sample demonstrates how to sub-class the Dialog class to create
different bot control mechanism like simple slot filling. 

# Table of Contents
- [Concepts introduced in this sample](#concepts-introduced-in-this-sample)
  * [Custom Dialogs](#custom-dialogs)
- [To try this sample](#to-try-this-sample)
  * [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    + [Clone the repo](#clone-the-repo)
  * [Run the Sample](#run-the-sample)
    + [Visual Studio Code](#visual-studio-code)
  * [Testing the bot using Bot Framework Emulator](#testing-the-bot-using-bot-framework-emulator)
    + [Connect to bot using Bot Framework Emulator **V4**](#connect-to-bot-using-bot-framework-emulator---v4--)
  * [Deploy to Azure](#deploy-to-azure)
    + [Using CLI Tools](#using-cli-tools)
- [Further reading](#further-reading)

# Concepts introduced in this sample
## Custom Dialogs

BotBuilder provides a built-in base class called `Dialog`. By subclassing Dialog, developers can create new ways to define and control dialog flows used by the bot. By adhering to the features of this class, developers will create custom dialogs that can be used side-by-side with other dialog types, as well as built-in or custom prompts.

This example demonstrates a custom Dialog class called `SlotFillingDialog`, which takes a series of "slots" which define a value the bot needs to collect from the user, as well as the prompt it should use. The bot will iterate through all of the slots until they are all full, at which point the dialog completes.
# To try this sample
## Prerequisites
### Clone the repo
To clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/microsoft/botbuilder-samples.git
```

## Run the Sample
### Visual Studio Code
- In a terminal, navigate to the following directory:
	```bash
	cd samples\javascript_nodejs\19.custom-dialogs
	```

	**Optional:** Update the `.env` file under `samples\javascript_nodejs\19.custom-dialogs` with your **botFileSecret**.
	For Azure Bot Service bots, you can find the botFileSecret under application settings.

- Install modules and start the bot:
    ```bash
    npm i && npm start
    ```
    Alternatively you can also use nodemon via:
    ```bash
    npm i && npm run watch
    ```

## Testing the bot using Bot Framework Emulator
[Microsoft Bot Framework Emulator](https://github.com/microsoft/botframework-emulator) is a desktop application that allows bot developers to test and debug their bots on localhost or running remotely through a tunnel.

Install the Bot Framework emulator from [here](https://github.com/Microsoft/BotFramework-Emulator/releases).

### Connect to bot using Bot Framework Emulator **V4**
- Launch Bot Framework Emulator
- From the *File* menu select *Open Bot Configuration*
- Navigate to your `.bot` file

## Deploy to Azure
### Using CLI Tools
You can use the [MSBot](https://github.com/microsoft/botbuilder-tools) Bot Builder CLI tool to clone and configure any services this sample depends on. In order to install this and other tools, you can read [Installing CLI Tools](../../../Installing_CLI_tools.md).

To clone this bot, run:

```bash
msbot clone services -f deploymentScripts/msbotClone -n <BOT-NAME> -l <Azure-location> --subscriptionId <Azure-subscription-id>
```
- Write down the secret generated by `MSBot`. 
- The secret key is used later for the emulator and configuration:
	```bash
	The secret used to decrypt <NAME>.bot is:
    XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX=
    NOTE: This secret is not recoverable and you should store this secret in a secure place according to best security practices.
    Your project may be configured to rely on this secret and you should update it as appropriate.
  ```
- Inspect Bot configuration file.
- The `msbot clone` command above generates a bot configuration file.
- The name of the bot configuration file is `<NAME>.bot`, where `<NAME>` is the name of your bot used in the `msbot clone` step.
- The configuration file can be loaded by the [Microsoft Bot Framework Emulator](https://aka.ms/botframeworkemulator).
# Further reading
- [Dialog class reference](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/javascript/api/botbuilder-dialogs/dialog)
- [WaterfallDialog class reference](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.bot.builder.dialogs.waterfalldialog?view=botbuilder-dotnet-stable)
- [Manage complex conversation flows with dialogs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/bot-service/bot-builder-dialog-manage-complex-conversation-flow?view=azure-bot-service-4.0&tabs=javascript)