This sample uses the bot authentication capabilities of Azure Bot Service. In this sample we are assuming the OAuth 2 provider is Azure Active Directory v2 (AADv2) and are utilizing the Microsoft Graph API to retrieve data about the user.  

# Table of Contents
- [Concepts introduced in this sample](#concepts-introduced-in-this-sample)
  * [Authentication Bot Utilizing MS Graph](#authentication-bot-utilizing-ms-graph)
- [To try this sample](#to-try-this-sample)
  * [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    + [Clone the repo](#clone-the-repo)
  * [Run the Sample](#run-the-sample)
    + [Visual Studio Code](#visual-studio-code)
  * [Testing the bot using Bot Framework Emulator](#testing-the-bot-using-bot-framework-emulator)
    + [Connect to bot using Bot Framework Emulator **V4**](#connect-to-bot-using-bot-framework-emulator---v4--)
  * [Deploy to Azure](#deploy-to-azure)
    + [Using CLI Tools](#using-cli-tools)
- [Further reading](#further-reading)

# Concepts introduced in this sample
## Authentication Bot Utilizing MS Graph
This sample demonstrates using Azure Active Directory v2 as the OAuth2 provider and utilizes the Microsoft Graph API.
Microsoft Graph is a Microsoft developer platform that connects multiple services and devices. Initially released in 2015, the Microsoft Graph builds on Office 365 APIs and allows developers to integrate their services with Microsoft products including Windows, Office 365, and Azure.

[Check here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/bot-service/bot-builder-authentication?view=azure-bot-service-4.0&tabs=csharp) for information about getting an AADv2 application setup for use in Azure Bot Service.
The [scopes](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/docs/concepts/permissions_reference) used in this sample are the following:

- `email`
- `Mail.Read`
- `Mail.Send.Shared`
- `openid`
- `profile`
- `User.Read`
- `User.ReadBasic.All`

# To try this sample
## Prerequisites
### Clone the repo
To clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/microsoft/botbuilder-samples.git
```

## Run the Sample
### Visual Studio Code
- In a terminal, navigate to the following directory:
  ```bash
  cd samples\javascript_nodejs\24.bot-authentication-msgraph
  ```

  **Optional:** Update the `.env` file under `samples\javascript_nodejs\24.bot-authentication-msgraph` with your **botFileSecret**.
  For Azure Bot Service bots, you can find the botFileSecret under application settings.

- Update `authentication-msgraph.bot` with required configuration settings

    - App ID and Key for registered bots

- Update `CONNECTION_SETTING_NAME` in `bot.js` so the bot can perform OAuth calls through Azure Bot Service

- Install modules and start the bot:

    ```bash
    npm i && npm start
    ```
    Alternatively you can also use nodemon via:
    ```bash
    npm i && npm run watch
    ```

## Testing the bot using Bot Framework Emulator
[Microsoft Bot Framework Emulator](https://github.com/microsoft/botframework-emulator) is a desktop application that allows bot developers to test and debug their bots on localhost or running remotely through a tunnel.

- Install the Bot Framework emulator from [here](https://github.com/Microsoft/BotFramework-Emulator/releases).
- In Settings, enable `Use a sign-in verification code for OAuthCards` to receive the magic code

### Connect to bot using Bot Framework Emulator **V4**
- Launch Bot Framework Emulator
- From the *File* menu select *Open Bot Configuration*
- Navigate to your `.bot` file

## Deploy to Azure
### Using CLI Tools
You can use the [MSBot](https://github.com/microsoft/botbuilder-tools) Bot Builder CLI tool to clone and configure any services this sample depends on. In order to install this and other tools, you can read [Installing CLI Tools](../../../Installing_CLI_tools.md).

To clone this bot, run:

```bash
msbot clone services -f deploymentScripts/msbotClone -n <BOT-NAME> -l <Azure-location> --subscriptionId <Azure-subscription-id>
```
- Write down the secret generated by `MSBot`. 
- The secret key is used later for the emulator and configuration:
  ```bash
  The secret used to decrypt <NAME>.bot is:
    XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX=
    NOTE: This secret is not recoverable and you should store this secret in a secure place according to best security practices.
    Your project may be configured to rely on this secret and you should update it as appropriate.
  ```
- Inspect Bot configuration file.
- The `msbot clone` command above generates a bot configuration file.
- The name of the bot configuration file is `<NAME>.bot`, where `<NAME>` is the name of your bot used in the `msbot clone` step.
- The configuration file can be loaded by the [Microsoft Bot Framework Emulator](https://aka.ms/botframeworkemulator).
# Further reading
- [Channels and Bot Connector service](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/bot-service/bot-concepts?view=azure-bot-service-4.0)
- [Activity processing](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/bot-service/bot-builder-concept-activity-processing?view=azure-bot-service-4.0)
- [Microsoft Graph API](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/graph)
- [MS Graph Docs](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/docs/concepts/overview) and [SDK](https://github.com/microsoftgraph/msgraph-sdk-javascript)