This sample shows a simple echo bot and demonstrates the bot working as a console app using a sample console adapter.

# Concepts introduced in this sample

## What is a bot?

A bot is an app that users interact with in a conversational way using text, graphics (cards), or speech. It may be a simple question and answer dialog, or a sophisticated bot that allows people to interact with services in an intelligent manner using pattern matching, state tracking and artificial intelligence techniques well-integrated with existing business services.

## Adapters

[Adapters](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.bot.builder.adapters?view=botbuilder-4.0.0-alpha), such as the `ConsoleAdapter`, provide an abstraction for your bot to work with a variety of environments and messaging platforms.

A bot is directed by it's adapter, which can be thought of as the conductor for your bot. The adapter is responsible for directing incoming and outgoing communication, authentication, and so on.

Adapters for different platforms and
messaging technologies differ internally, but achieve the same goal - connecting bots to a stream of messages and events from users. 
When your bot receives an activity, the adapter wraps up everything about that activity, creates a [context object](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/javascript/api/botbuilder-core/turncontext?view=botbuilder-ts-latest), passes it to your bot's application logic,
and sends responses generated by your bot back to the user's channel.

In most situations, we don't work with the adapter directly, but it's good to know it's there and what it does. In this example, we're using the
`ConsoleAdapter`, which provides a very simple way to exchange messages - they're sent and received via the console window. Using the ConsoleAdapter
is a great way of getting started quickly with Botbuilder. It also allows you to build and test bots that operate on your local machine without any
external API calls or client applications.

Other available adapters connect your bot to the web, or through the BotFramework Connector Service, to many popular messaging platforms.

# To try this sample

- Clone the repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/microsoft/botbuilder-samples.git
```

# Prerequisites

## Visual studio

- Navigate to the samples folder (`botbuilder-samples/samples/csharp_dotnetcore/01.console-echo`) and open **Console-EchoBot.csproj** in Visual Studio 
- From the **Startup Projects** select `Console-EchoBot`
- Run the project (press `F5` key)

## Visual studio code

- Open `botbuilder-samples/samples/csharp_dotnetcore/01.console-echo` folder
- Bring up a terminal, navigate to `botbuilder-samples/samples/csharp_dotnetcore/01.console-echo` folder
- Type `dotnet run`.

## Testing the bot using the console

After running running the project, the bot presents a prompt directly in the console window.

Send messages to the bot by typing them into the console.  The bot will echo your message back to you.

## Update packages

- In Visual Studio right click on the solution and select **Restore NuGet Packages**.
  **Note:** this sample requires `Microsoft.Bot.Builder`.
- In Visual Studio Code type `dotnet restore`

# Further reading

- [Azure Bot Service Introduction](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/bot-service/bot-service-overview-introduction?view=azure-bot-service-4.0)
- [Bot basics](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/bot-service/bot-builder-basics?view=azure-bot-service-4.0)
- [Channels and Bot Connector service](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/bot-service/bot-concepts?view=azure-bot-service-4.0)
- [Activity processing](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/bot-service/bot-builder-concept-activity-processing?view=azure-bot-service-4.0)