This sample shows a simple echo bot and demonstrates the bot working as a console app using a sample console adapter. 

# Table of Contents

- [Concepts introduced in this sample](#concepts-introduced-in-this-sample)
  * [What is a bot?](#what-is-a-bot-)
  * [Adapters](#adapters)
- [To try this sample](#to-try-this-sample)
  * [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    + [Clone the repo](#clone-the-repo)
  * [Run the Sample](#run-the-sample)
    + [Visual Studio Code](#visual-studio-code)
  * [Testing the bot using Bot Framework Emulator](#testing-the-bot-using-bot-framework-emulator)
    + [Connect to bot using Bot Framework Emulator **V4**](#connect-to-bot-using-bot-framework-emulator---v4--)
  * [Deploy to Azure](#deploy-to-azure)
    + [Using CLI Tools](#using-cli-tools)
- [Further reading](#further-reading)

# Concepts introduced in this sample

## What is a bot?
A bot is an app that users interact with in a conversational way using text, graphics (cards), or speech. It may be a simple question and answer dialog, or a sophisticated bot that allows people to interact with services in an intelligent manner using pattern matching, state tracking and artificial intelligence techniques well-integrated with existing business services.

## Adapters

Adapters provide an abstraction for your bot to work with a variety of environments. 

A bot is directed by its adapter, which can be thought of as the conductor for your bot. The adapter is responsible for directing incoming and outgoing communication, authentication, and so on. The adapter differs based on its environment (the adapter internally works differently locally versus on Azure) but in each instance it achieves the same goal. 

In most situations we don't work with the adapter directly, such as when creating a bot from a template, but it's good to know it's there and what it does.
The bot adapter encapsulates authentication processes and sends activities to and receives activities from the Bot Connector Service. When your bot receives an activity, the adapter wraps up everything about that activity, creates a context object, passes it to your bot's application logic, and sends responses generated by your bot back to the user's channel.

# To try this sample
## Prerequisites
### Clone the repo
To clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/microsoft/botbuilder-samples.git
```

## Run the Sample
### Visual Studio Code
- In a terminal, navigate to the following directory:
  ```bash
  cd sample\javascript_nodejs\01.console-echo
  ```

  **Optional:** Update the `.env` file under `sample\javascript_nodejs\01.console-echo` with your **botFileSecret**.
  For Azure Bot Service bots, you can find the botFileSecret under application settings.

- Install modules and start the bot:
    ```bash
    npm i && npm start
    ```
    Alternatively you can also use nodemon via:
    ```bash
    npm i && npm run watch
    ```

## Testing the bot using Bot Framework Emulator
[Microsoft Bot Framework Emulator](https://github.com/microsoft/botframework-emulator) is a desktop application that allows bot developers to test and debug their bots on localhost or running remotely through a tunnel.

Install the Bot Framework emulator from [here](https://github.com/Microsoft/BotFramework-Emulator/releases)

### Connect to bot using Bot Framework Emulator **V4**
- Launch Bot Framework Emulator
- From the *File* menu select *Open Bot Configuration*
- Navigate to your `.bot` file

## Deploy to Azure
### Using CLI Tools
You can use the [MSBot](https://github.com/microsoft/botbuilder-tools) Bot Builder CLI tool to clone and configure any services this sample depends on. In order to install this and other tools, you can read [Installing CLI Tools](../../../Installing_CLI_tools.md).

To clone this bot, run:

```bash
msbot clone services -f deploymentScripts/msbotClone -n <BOT-NAME> -l <Azure-location> --subscriptionId <Azure-subscription-id>
```
# Further reading
- [Azure Bot Service Introduction](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/bot-service/bot-service-overview-introduction?view=azure-bot-service-4.0)
- [Bot basics](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/bot-service/bot-builder-basics?view=azure-bot-service-4.0)
- [Channels and Bot Connector service](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/bot-service/bot-concepts?view=azure-bot-service-4.0)
- [Activity processing](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/bot-service/bot-builder-concept-activity-processing?view=azure-bot-service-4.0)